foreign
s welcome to this week's episode of the
saster cro confidential podcast I'm your
host Sam blonde two quick programming
notes before we jump into this week's
episode the first is we are wrapping up
our uh founder-led sales
miniseries on the cro confidential
podcast this week and we'll get back to
sales and revenue leaders uh Beyond this
week so just uh uh but we're ending on a
high note as you'll learn momentarily
second programming note we have I'm
ecstatic to be attending saster Europa
that is coming up here in just a few
weeks June 6 and 7. I'll actually be
doing two sessions one around uh the 10
hacks that helped brex scale from zero
to 400 million in Revenue in one session
with Parker Conrad uh the CEO at
Rippling my former CEO at zenefits also
a close friend and awesome person hope
to see you all there let's continue with
today's scheduled programming uh we have
an incredibly special guest this week uh
Brendan Cassidy close friend of mine my
boss I'm sure you don't like hearing uh
you framed as such but Brendan was my VP
of sales at ecosign for something like
four plus years I learned so much from
uh brynden as a sales leader prior to
Echo sign brynden was the first sales
leader at LinkedIn company y'all have
probably heard of before post Echo sign
uh Brendan has done a lot the first
sales leader at talk desk uh valued now
at 10 plus billion dollars and now
actually a co-founder
um and co-founder of a really exciting
business uh called cocell we're going to
learn about that in just a moment uh but
welcome to the Pod Brendan
yeah thank you Sam thanks for the
introduction and uh yeah excited to be
here
perfect well let's start with uh uh
where we're going to spend much of today
which is talking about founder-led sales
from the unique perspective of a current
founder that's also one of the most
accomplished sales leaders in the world
um and interestingly brynden your
company is also building a product to
help businesses acquire customers so
three things that are relevant to this
podcast number one you are a former
sales leader and one of the most
accomplished sales leaders in the world
two you are now a co-founder of a
company and we're talking about
founder-led sales and three your
business is in this category of
acquiring customers that is sort of the
point of this podcast in the first place
um tell us about Coastal
yeah code cell has been a probably 10
probably longer 10 plus year Journey
um for me and so I've always had these
sort of you know sort of problems you
want to solve you know sort of over the
course of your career and you may get a
chance to solve them wherever you are
wherever you're working but you know and
I know you have some yourself but you
you sort of have them in the back your
mind of like okay no one's still nobody
seemed to solve this problem and then
you're like you know at some point you
know that's something that I want to
spend time on you know I want to solve
and really that's been
pretty big driver for me in my career in
the decisions I've made right is like I
have you know when I've had conviction
about what the problem is right and that
the solving that problem is like
incredibly meaningful I've been right
most of the time and when I didn't have
that conviction I'm not not not quite as
uh not as quite a of a of a track record
of success so
I've always tried to follow that sort of
Credo and stuff you know co-cellus is is
is is everything that I've sort of the
culmination of everything I kind of
worked on for 20 years as a VP of sales
as somebody that's consulted advised for
probably 70 plus startups at varying
stages of growth
and seeing like what are the what's the
pain what's the problem and you know
what are what are things that you could
do to materially increase your chances
to to making it because 90 plus percent
of these companies are not going to make
it right there's going to be a an
outcome in which nobody makes money
and so I've really felt like you know
obviously as early LinkedIn so I saw
that you know the early power of like
relationships and relationship Capital
um LinkedIn really sort of shied away
from sort of referrals in general right
became more about sort of the data and
not the sort of connection and so I
always felt like hey this is a problem I
want to solve and so Cosell is you know
helping sort of go to go to market teams
certainly for companies that are like C
day be around stage companies that's
certainly where we're focusing right now
um sort of tap identify tap into and
connect with the people around them that
can help them
um take the most strategic and direct
path to their customers
um with credibility with
um you know with warmth
um in sort of the you know in my opinion
and by the way not everybody agrees with
it and I'm okay I'm okay being in a
place where you know not everybody says
you're right or agrees what I have to
say but like the sort of cold sort of
Outreach Playbook right of like let's
just sort of sort of spam the market
with sort of quasi-personalized
communication is waning and
Effectiveness right you should do it by
the way it's it's sort of table Stakes
you have to do it on some level but it's
it's the response rates are going down
everybody's now been prospected too and
so you know there's sort of an alignment
between this idea of we should tap into
the people that we know in the
relationships we have and the people
that have influence in this sort of cold
Playbook
um that isn't isn't likely going to get
you where you want to go so
and so that's what we're doing so it's
we've we have software we have this sort
of Chrome extension right that allows
you to actually use it in LinkedIn where
you can sort of request an intro from
anyone you're connected with it's super
simple super easy super clean
um and so that's sort of like step one
and then step two is like unlocking the
people that actually have their
relationships right so for people like
you and I and Jason and others like what
is ultimately that's what will
um
that's that's what will determine the
winner is who can sort of unlock that
sort of connector experience or that you
know sort of gatekeeper in a scenario
that's a true win-win for both parties
um and I think that's a big part of why
Reed didn't go down this path 16 17
years ago right is because the person
that owned the relationship that could
make the introduction it was unclear as
to what the wind was for them like
what's the upside I get the person that
wants the entrail but the person that
actually has the introduction to offer
what's in it for them and that's you
know sort of an obsession for me to sort
of figure that out because it's com it's
complex but if you can figure it out the
it's the the reward is
you know it's the really the most
meaningful thing I will have done in my
career if I can figure it out
I love it let's just say I haven't
figured it at all figured it all out yet
so well I think I think you've
identified
um a problem and you're in the process
of developing a solution and realizing
some exciting early results around that
yeah I coincidentally did a post earlier
today uh that just talked about what
types of outbound early stage startups
should be leveraging so these are
startups that aren't yet household names
in their target market and to your point
you referenced earlier uh this like
blast the universe with cold outbound
email sequencing if you are a
little-known brand that's not gonna be
very effective
um as a sales leader when I was at
rexers and if it's uh or even Echo sign
I received countless outbound emails
um some of which which were from
companies that I had heard of and some
of which were from companies that I
hadn't the probability of me
um uh having some interest in a company
that I had heard of was just much much
greater than having interest in a
company that I hadn't and to take it a
step further
further responding to
action saying hey we love this product
or hey we love this CEO you should talk
to them because they can really help I'm
replying to that email I'm not replying
to the email from a startup that I've
never heard of that has like little web
presence and seven employees on LinkedIn
or something like that but that same
company Brendan if you by the way that's
it doesn't that seem like an obvious
thing
it does seem obvious and so the the the
outcome is at least the recommendations
that I make are around leveraging
personal network but that only scales so
far and so I think that that's what you
are trying to tackle with Cosell is not
necessarily making this infinite
scalable infinitely scalable but um
leveraging uh uh warm introductions to
companies uh that will ultimately
generate more opportunities and more
closed businesses outside of this like
spray and pray method of outbounding
yeah and I think um you know I'm a big
believer in Outreach right and a big I'm
a big fan of Manny who's the founder and
I think it's a great company and they're
going to go public and everyone's going
to make lots of money right Riley Devine
and others right that we know it's going
to be a great outcome for them right and
you should do it irregardless of whether
you believe in referrals or not it's
just sort of part of the Playbook now
right it's not a it's not a it's not
really an optional thing
um but yeah I think there's a you know
you should say we should absolutely take
our most strategic and and put our best
foot forward and how we go to market as
a company and that's that's what I'm
trying you know that's what we're trying
to do that's what I'm trying to do
that's what's I feel like for me after
all these years that's like in these you
know countless startups that are in this
situation right of like nobody knows who
we are
um nobody's like clamoring for the
solution maybe nobody is even
acknowledging the problem what do I do
um in the you know you've been you've
been pitched that company a hundred
times and so by you probably consulted
for some of them in the past and it's a
daunting problem right there's not in in
a lot of cases there's not much you or I
can do to help them
um and that's it that's I want to I want
to give people sort of a Lifeline
um to get out of that situation of you
know which is probably top three or four
reasons why 90 plus out of 100 startups
fail that's one of the biggest reasons
why is you never get right you never get
to Market or you can't get to Market
because you're too early and you know or
you're too late and I think leveraging
relationships and referrals can sort of
mitigate a lot of those issues right and
it as you know right like
you're you're a VC now so you're
thinking about how do you become a 10
billion dollar company I can tell you
now as a Founder for the first time the
last thing we're worried about on a
day-to-day basis is like how are we
going to be worth 10 billion dollars
right you're just thinking about how do
I get from you know where we are to like
the next stage so that we can live to
get to the next stage right
um and so yeah that's it that's what
we're trying to do and I think it's sort
of you know what we what I've been
talking about I think is the market sort
of catch me up to the to the reality of
that's you know you have to do it it's
awesome and then how do you do it
becomes the next part I'm going to talk
a little bit about what we did
specifically to acquire customers and
even more tactically uh how he acquired
customers through outbound in the early
days at brex which I think will be a
decent segue to sort of like what you're
what you're doing at Cosell to acquire
your first set of customers but taking
taking me back to brex uh when I joined
we hadn't yet launched the uh uh product
yet it was in beta we didn't have much
of a website it said coming soon and
there was no publicly available
information online but we were doing
outbound and we restricted outbound to
uh Pedro Enrique went through YC we
restricted the outbound to the YC batch
that they were in into prior YC batches
also and we acquired most of their YC
batch and dozens of companies from prior
YC batches also
um and the reason is because like the
the they knew who Pedro Enrique were um
if they were in the batch together they
knew that well they were excited about
the business strong value prop and even
you go back to Prior batches those folks
go to demo day they know who the company
is and so we were really successful was
outbound with outbounding even before we
had a website but we were successful
because of these Network effects
um when we launched the first campaign
that we did and I've done a post on this
is the champagne campaign where we sent
bottles of Booth clicko along with
handwritten notes from Enrique and we
automated that handwritten note process
uh just saying congratulations on your
recent fundraise were a fellow early
stage startup located in the Bay Area
and we're cheering for you we know how
hard it is to build a successful
business
and we had something like 75 percent
reply rate to those uh uh outbound
Champagnes and then email follow-up and
then also about a 75 conversion rate to
those demos becoming customers
we did a bunch of marketing and brand
initiatives um we put Billboards all
over San Francisco let's just go with
that example
um we owned downtown San Francisco and
we specifically uh
put I remember it was cool when there
were Billboards just kidding it was cool
when you went from this company when
like nobody had heard of YouTube oh I
see your Billboards everywhere so at
least they had heard of us
um we were very deliberate about
reaching out to companies that were
headquartered in downtown San Francisco
and if you were headquartered in
downtown San Francisco this was back in
the days when everybody went into the
office every day you knew who
it is that's right and you know the
people that were I'm from Kansas City
there were probably some tech companies
in Kansas City we were not outbounding
to those folks because they would have
no clue who brex was isn't that sort of
evolved over time and again you just
take advantage of these marketing and
brand and network uh Tailwinds that you
have to increase the probability of
success on your outbound let's talk
about you're now doing this for at least
the second time arguably
um many times over but you were in a way
almost like a co-founder but certainly
like the very first go to market advisor
at gong you're now doing this at Cosell
tell us a little bit about the very
first campaigns that you put in place
like where do you start
yeah I mean I think gone's where it
started for me right it's like the first
sort of test case
um in which you know that's that was
sort of the approach we took so I think
if you looked at
the first 50 customers are gone and I
guess probably 30 were referrals through
um two VPS of sales through myself or on
meat
maybe a couple investors right but like
we had we had networks that were
incredibly strong into that space in
that market so we actually didn't need
that much other help
we just knew pretty much everything I've
been doing for as you know 15 years 10
years or whatever has been talking to
VPS of sales and sales leaders and so
you know I have you know and I meet as
well or enemy who's the the founder and
CEO of gone who's
you know an incredible CEO and founder
just obviously incredibly impressed with
what they've done
um but yeah we were able to you know
because we had these just massive
networks into our target market
um probably 30 of our first 50 probably
50 of our first hundred customers were
all through
um sort of our Collective Network and
that was
you know those hundred customers set the
tone for the next thousand customers
right because they they were through
credible sources right so there's just a
different level of sort of
accountability and familiarity with your
customer when it's in you it's hard to
explain right but like obviously if
you're cold calling somebody they don't
have any real loyalty to you but if it
comes through an introduction through
someone they know and someone they trust
um you know just you're in better hands
you're going to have more rope right as
your early customers are going to give
you more rope uh more chances to you
know prove yourself because you probably
haven't figured it all out so everything
you're looking for there you get through
that and and you in and you don't get in
sort of the other sort of the other
approaches that you can take
and so that that kind of became my sort
of Credo which is everything I'm doing I
don't I don't want to if we're making
cold calls we're doing something wrong
right if we're if we're blasting cold
emails we're doing something wrong so
yeah we we were able to do that there
and I just said hey like
this is pretty transferable and if the
people that have these networks are sort
of baked into this equation
um from the get-go then it's
extraordinarily powerful and that's kind
of what we're doing here right so we
have this this product that allows sort
of easy easy identification access to
and sort of requesting of intros and
then we have this sort of network of
people that are
super connected into these markets if
you want to sort of bring them in as
sort of call them like paid we call them
premium connectors paid advisors
whatever you want to call it
but they will open doors and they will
represent you an influence for you in
the same way I did for gone six years
ago seven years ago
it ain't free right
um and that's kind of that's sort of the
that's the
jumping off point for me right is this
sort of insistence that sort of like
karma is you know hey do me a favor okay
I'll do it once hey do me a favor I'll
do it twice do me a favor the third time
everybody's gone right
um there has to be sort of give to you
know give take there has to be a win-win
and that's what I believe is the win-win
right is to take the people that have
the most influence in the deepest
inroads and the most credibility and
make them a partner right not and that
doesn't just mean give them a thousand
shares or five thousand shares it means
you know put them on payroll
you know so that's what we do we pay him
500 bucks a month they open a certain
number of doors for us
um and you know what they're being a
little bit right
um as Jason calcanos would say so I
think that's his trademark phrase but
that's you know that's it
um it's not free and if you insist that
like that it has to be this sort of
closed-loop karmic
um whatever whatever you're gonna come
away just You're Gonna Come Away
thinking wow we got a couple good intros
and then it just stopped right
um so that's where we're at
awesome
um let's go one layer deeper here this
is something that has come up on uh I
think all three of the founder LED
customer acquisition or founder-led
sales versions of this podcast that
we've done
um and what I'm hearing from you is
Brendan you uh were an early advisor to
gong they gave you equity in that
business and you acquired and they paid
me and they paid you cash and you
acquired many of their first customers
not all of their friends I helped
acquire so that's I don't want to take
too much criteria uh I help I help them
I help them as you know I think I made a
material difference in helping establish
them as you know sort of an early market
leader right in that space
um with customer attraction and growth
and on some level right you're trying to
bring customer it's
we had customers certainly in the early
days have gone right where there was
like minimal traction but maybe a little
traction right
but because we had such strong
relationships with a lot of them right
it really did help us
um you know sort of like
sort of lengthen out their you know path
to Value
um
and that my takeaway from that is hey if
you could replicate having myself in a
meet and someone else or other people
that you know if you sell the VPS of
sales there's no better way to go to
market than leverage three or four
people that know crapload of VPS of
sales
and that's it it's binary you know and
and so you at gong we're an advisor
through your personal Network you opened
doors to many of their future customers
yeah
um you're doing the same thing at Cosell
you have a number of advisors that you
are paying
um it's not one size fits all some
people are motivated by Equity others
prefer cash just solve for whatever sort
of moves the needle for for the person
that you think can help your business
um and then one thing that I heard as
sort of like the next step in this um at
least in coordination with continuing to
leverage these advisors is you then
start to leverage your customers so you
acquire your first set of customers
hopefully they're in this category of
Raving fans and then you can leverage
those customers to generate more
customers do you
um both at Costco and historically do
you combine the two do you make
customers that may be raving fans also
advisors that you are compensating
whether it's through Equity or cash to
generate more business for you
yeah I mean that's I I would say that we
I that's probably wish you should right
and there have been companies that have
come up try to solve that particular
problem right if you remember like in
Florida with Mark organ
um he was the founder of eloqua remember
that was sort of what they were focused
on which was sort of harnessing existing
customers to drive
sort of referrals right into more
business I think that is absolutely
something that you should do
um and probably could do out of this I
mean obviously when
the things that I've been focused on for
most of the last 10 years right when you
talk about companies I've worked for
companies that I've advised for right
most of them don't have customers right
so that's like that's a sec you know
that's a secondary thing I do think like
one thing that you are great at right
you're one of the best that's ever been
at this and so was I or am I is
leveraging Right sort of what I call
reference selling right but leveraging
the customers you have to you know it's
that's just baked into like the DNA of
how you sell right so you know you walk
the floor at Echo sign you know and you
you heard customers existing customers
being talked about a thousand times a
day imagine you did that as benefits
Brax
as you know and we use that as as armor
armor and and and we use it for offense
in the sales cycle right when we're in a
deal and we knew that we had won
you know you know when we were in the
Facebook deal right and we you know
everything we did was talked about
Google and then we were in Twitter
everything we did was talk about
Facebook or so Brendan two uh things
that you discussed that stood out to me
um the first is talking about I asked
the question do you pay the customers do
you give advisor grants um or maybe even
some form of compensation your answer
was yes I emphatically agree
um I have seen um so many times and by
the way like maybe uh on the advisor
side where you're giving Equity maybe
there's a test here which is if this
person wasn't a customer would they make
for a good advisor and if the answer is
yes then make them an advisor as a
customer and compensate them with that
Equity
um outside of that you should have some
form of incentive whether it's like a
former referral program or something
that I mean at least ask at least make
the ask but probably incentivize through
some form of compensation some it's it's
it's not free right and and what you're
asking for is really really valuable
and it's you know it's a complex
transaction right it's not just sending
an email through Outreach right there's
real relationships here
um and you know for the people that have
those
The credibility right like if uh you
know if your recruitment technology
company and you can connect with Kevin
Gaither right who was the cereal for zip
recruiter right who's about as connected
into that space as you're going to get
guess what everybody knows who he is
more than they know who you are right so
in reality like what he's giving to you
is like is is you know critical he's
giving you credit it's not just uh
connection or a referral it's giving you
credibility
um and it's not free and he's you know
I've literally talked to him exactly
about this and I think his quote was
like hey my my uh my bell is full of
karma I think was this quote like I
don't need any more karma I've got I've
got all the Karma I need you know like
if you want my help like you know it's
not free
um and so yeah I've I've probably spent
100 hours talking to people like you and
me and others you know that have the
that have something of tremendous value
for people right where they can open
door and they can use their influence at
really minimal cost quite frankly right
of like the the capital cost
relationship Capital cost
and they're like yeah like it's I'm not
going to continue to do this if there's
nothing involved right I might make a
couple intros and that's where like you
know sort of hey let's tap into our
investors VCS and they will help but
they're not going to continuously help
because at some point they'll just say
like yeah I made some intros for you bro
like you know the reason I invested in
you guys is you figure it out right
they're not just going to be a volume
connector or door opener and there there
will be some right there are some
investors that will do it continuously
and repeatedly but the vast majority are
not going to do it
um there has to be sort of scalable
continuous incentive
and if you do that like it's a strategic
advantage that your competition likely
is not going to be taking advantage of
so
um so take away
um and then takeaways incentivize your
customers or make it easy for your
customers to be raving fans and refer
you additional business
um continuing down the path of
leveraging your existing customers uh
you'll remember Brendan
um I closed Aetna when we were at uh
ecosign and we did a press release with
Aetna or convinced them to do a press
release with us around how much paper
they were saving by going green and
doing electronic signature and it was
you know millions of pieces of paper
maybe every month something like
and we took that case study and I sent
it to United Insignia and all the Blue
Cross Blue Shields and we want them all
um and so you know like continuing down
this path of leveraging your customers
there's both sort of like a way that you
do it through the customer that we've
been describing right now which is sort
of like incentivizing referrals there's
also leveraging your existing customers
in the way that I just described which
is Aetna wasn't introducing us to United
in fact like at the United honestly that
that's another that's an hour podcast
just on sort of reference selling right
um which by the way there's as a startup
if you're not doing that then you are
that's like a complete dereliction of
Duty right
um hopefully you're telling the truth
right you're not talking about customers
that don't exist right of course
um well you and I have never done that
so
um but like you know but like you have
to you even if they don't have that much
brandability brand value have to still
you know you you're trying to create
this perception that like hey the trains
left the station right like the you know
everybody has turned their ships and you
can be on the sort of tip of that spear
right and realize the benefits before
it's obvious or you can be a late the
last adopter and you can be left behind
right and obviously it's not that it's
not that simple or binary but that is
that's part of what you're doing as a
startup right like this is this has
already happened right because that's
all you're just trying to accelerate you
know sort of the reality right the
reality it was in 2016 nobody was like
stumping around being like my God I need
a call recording sort of you know sort
of analytics platform nobody nobody was
like you know if I just had that that
would unlock the key
um so yeah
and now gong is with Aaron it's all
credit just kidding it's credit to many
others the incredible Amid and Iran and
Elan and uh Jameson Young Who obviously
worked for you Echo science
um you know honestly you look at it
you're just like it's incredible that
you were a part of that in the early
stages and what has become so it's
awesome so I hate to I hate to use the
term Playbook uh because like generally
that
um uh comes with negative consequences
when you try and apply like some some
Playbook that worked for another company
that uh uh you think might work for your
company that said
um at a minimum we're establishing a bit
of a theme here we've talked with three
founders of companies that are focused
on acquiring their first set of
customers a couple weeks ago it was
Howard Lerman from Rome last week it was
Colin Zima from Omni today brynden it's
you from Cosell all three of you
referenced
um leveraging advisors and your personal
networks to acquire your first set of
customers all three of you talked about
leveraging existing customers to acquire
your next set of customers
um and so all three of you have very
different backgrounds very different
personal networks and advantages but all
three of you are are applying this same
sort of like method and so for those
that are listening uh again there's
certainly a trend here between these
three folks continuing along that path
Brendan uh I referenced something
earlier which was the champagne campaign
where you know we sent these bottles of
champagne and handwritten notes and it
was super effective have you ever tried
anything whether it's with Cosell or
gong or otherwise there was sort of
unconventional uh similar to what I just
described with that champagne campaign
that like um and the reason I ask many
listeners and many folks on social media
that have followed along with posts like
that they find these types of uh throw
stuff against the wall and and see what
sticks examples really helpful in
potentially trying the same thing or
coming up with their own ideas so
curious anything unconventional that
comes to mind
um well you know the you're talking
about sort of a sentoso kind of flow
right
um which is sort of this champagne or
you know sort of greeting cards or
flowers or whatever right some sort of
like sort of direct
um
whatever you want to call it direct mail
or sort of drop right that's going to
drop like something physical to the
customer and actually so Chris rudigrap
is the founder of sendoso actually
worked for me at talk test back in the
day so
um I'm certainly a fan of Sentosa and
what they've done I'm actually an
advisor for sundoso as well
um not to not to steal it back to Prior
themes but hopefully getting some shares
for that plug yeah you know I mean I
think it's like it's you know you're
constantly if you're in this world right
you're constantly thinking of sort of
new or Innovative or disruptive ways to
get visibility or sort of you know
mind share market share whatever it is
um and like you know the reality is
there's not that many new ideas as far
as like you know we're talking about
sort of leveraging relationship Capital
well guess what linkedin's
you know been around right it's not like
it's a New Concept to say there's powers
and referrals I remember you and I both
I think advised for a couple companies
in the legal Tech space
um right which was like super like
traditional not digital et cetera Etc
and I think we we one of our clients
that we both worked for was like
literally they were like dropping off
like donuts and swag in the lobby of
these law firms right and that was like
the one of the best ways that they could
sort of Drive sort of Engagement and
visibility and all that stuff but yeah
the reality what's that I like that um
the reason that I like it part of the
reason why was because like these people
like there's zero response rate to like
traditional digital sort of Outreach and
cold calling and all that stuff it's
just like hey dude you literally have to
drop the donuts off in the lobby right
that's the only way they're going to
respond you know I'll tell you why I
like these examples
um the champagne that uh we send the
donuts that you're describing and I
think that's a great example
um similar to the champagne um but but
good sort of like
um ideation and reinforcement at least
uh
each of those examples are Community
examples when we send the bottles of
champagne to the founders at their
offices they probably opened the
champagne and shared it with their team
to celebrate the fundraise that we had
sent them the bottle for and everybody
probably said like who sent us the
champagne it was bricks like everybody
then knows who the champagne is from and
I mean there's a certain there's a
certain level of class and champagne
that's not in Donuts maybe right so I
like that some people don't drink right
I think there are plenty of people out
there that would prefer the donut
um and you know probably early in the
morning myself included and and so then
with the donuts you know you are handing
out Donuts to folks and it's like I
think it's probably logical who you're
referencing which is this legal startup
but whether it's brex or logical or
Cosell like who sent us the donuts and
you don't get that you know I see a lot
I received a lot of email that um are in
my opinion ineffective that are like let
me buy you a cup of coffee by sending
you this Starbucks Starbucks gift card
if you take a call with me yeah which is
like that is not that if for those that
are listening like that doesn't work the
way that champagne Donuts the sort of
like Community uh uh examples that
Brandon and I have just used here if you
do want to try something similar you
know there's an I have there's I won't
go deep too deep into it because it's
not it's probably an offline
conversation but this idea of like I've
always had this notion of like what's
the angle right
so if you're going to say hey I want to
go after brex what's the angle right and
if you don't have an answer to that then
you're nowhere right so like hey I'm
gonna go after San Juan okay who knows
Sanborn or I know that Sam lives in
Miami or I know that uh you know I know
that Sam uh Sam is a Kansas City there's
things about Sam that you can use that
will probably get his attention that he
doesn't see every day right like I know
that Sam you know
just I'm such a huge fan of yours
um you know you're going to respond to
that probably right and like it's in
every standout so when you reach out
every it to me it should be you should
have an angle always always and if you
don't have an angle
um you know like you're gonna get sort
of what you deserve right like you know
like I know Jason Lumpkin right I'll
give you an angle Jason limkin if you
reach out to him an email
and you have a good email that's
personalized he'll respond a lot right
make sure you you know like okay if
you're gonna pump my ego up in an email
that your chances are better you know
say something right if you write a
thoughtful email that is personal uh and
sort of specific to but both me and the
value like the problems Jason talks a
lot about
um solving my my number one problem I'll
respond to that email or if you're
fundraising
um like a really good pitch on uh the
fundraise he will respond to that email
um yeah and so I mean there there's all
sorts of angles you can play
um you know and certainly you have to
have
some knowledge base and all that stuff
but like that's you can't that's that's
not a referral that's not a sort of an
AI solution or whatever right it's like
there's this
this base of intellectual capital and
people things people know about other
people
that's yeah there's something there for
that for that concept for me right
called like intel.co or something but
like
um right anyways that's it
those are other ideas but like it's it's
all part of that like what's the angle
of like are you are you taking a
strategic thoughtful sort of path to
your customer
whether it's a introduction whether it's
an email that's super personalized right
with information about who the buyer is
or problems that the buyer has that's
what that's where that's where we have
to go the other way is just right
there's an end there's an end game to
this mindless
you know rolling up your sleeves and
cold calling and not having a plan and
sending you know a bunch of emails right
there's like it ends at zero that's my
that's my belief it's not a zero now you
should do it table Stakes
knock it it's not going to hold up that
much longer so yeah
um you've mentioned a couple times in
this podcast we could do an entire
hour-long uh podcast on just that I
think you and I could probably go for
many hours on many different topics but
uh we should yeah we should talk about a
specific deal you know specifically
which I'm sure actually would be
valuable for many people but there are
there are some time constraints let's
end let's end on
um something that I imagine is a
question that you get asked a lot that
um I've been asked a lot it just sort of
like big picture
um you have seen a lot in your career as
a sales leader as a Founder
um as a advisor consultant
um any just favorite pieces of advice
that you like to offer to other Founders
or sales leaders given everything that
you've experienced
um yeah I would say
um
I mean it's really simple stuff right
like it's not rocket science but have an
extraordinarily compelling answer to
like what problem you're solving great
um what problem are you solving can you
explain it in one sentence
and if you can't explain it in one
sentence like
maybe step back and reconsider or figure
out a way to say it in one sentence
um I've you know the number of startups
that you know I've seen and encountered
in my career even successful startups
and you're like hey what problem are you
solving and they're like well we have a
thousand customers right like like what
what's the problem and you know if you
don't know what the problem is how do
you know what the solution is and how's
the market going to determine what the
solution is that's extraordinarily
common problem it's right which I again
that's I think something that you you're
incredible at is like just distilling it
down to like here's a here's a binary
problem and a binary solution right
um a lot of people struggle with that I
would say understanding you know sort of
understanding what okay hey we're
startup there's no there's no organic
nobody's knocking on our door like it's
Salesforce in 1999 right and you're a
single SAS solution right to take off
take an entire category over it's not
obvious right and like think about
um if it's not right what what is the
cost to solve that problem right I don't
think a lot of Founders don't understand
that if the market is not
is not obvious right and and you can't
drive sort of organic growth through
whatever it is marketing
LinkedIn whatever
that you would now have a grave problem
that's extraordinarily expensive to
solve and I would say the vast majority
of Founders have no idea what they're
signing up for
right you're talking about okay and now
I need to hire sgrs now right in
traditional terms right let's let's just
assume you know this referral advisor
you know
but like the traditionally they don't
understand what is the cost to solve
that problem and you're talking about
you know hundreds of thousands of
dollars
to hire train
um you know buy you know products and
systems and data and then that's without
training any of them right and that's
you know that's a problem and most
people don't understand what that is or
or how you know
that's you know again there's four or
five reasons why 90 out of 90 out of 100
startups don't make it that's one of
them right that you can't figure out how
do we go to market when the market is
not going to us
um I know that ties into other stuff but
like yeah that's that's one of the
things that I would say for most
Founders to understand what problem
you're solving if you can't answer the
question then you need to take a step
back and maybe pause right
um until you can come up and then I mean
you've been there before right where
you're you're talking to a founder and
you're like in the back of your mind
you're like why did you do this right
like why did you start this company I
don't understand you know like with no
problem in mind yeah you just started
coding and then you fell sort of into a
thing and then etc etc etc so
um and then the last one would be from a
sales and go to market standpoint there
is no one sales methodology that is
going to answer you you know that it's
going to solve all the things in front
of you right and so you see some people
that are like I subscribe to this Theory
like you know band or solution selling
or spin selling or value selling and you
right in reality like if you're going to
hire a VP of sales and they're going to
need to have like be able to incorporate
concepts of all those things into their
own unique
um sales methodology for your company it
will not just be some
um something that somebody bought a book
at the library about spin selling and
it's just not going to be that simple
and if you follow those methodologies to
a t you're going to end up in the
graveyard
um
uh let's end on a positive note which I
think is sound advice from uh a true
professional thank you for joining us
today it's awesome to see you for those
that listened thank you for being here
hope to see you uh June 6th and 7th as I
referenced earlier saster Europa uh it's
going to be a blast several thousand
attendees um I'll certainly be there and
I'm ecstatic to be there so hope to see
you in London right it's in London cool
uh which the the maybe uh maybe hey I
might get I might I might get on a plane
for that so that would be cool we'd love
to see you there too Brandon all right
thanks so much everybody take care
foreign
[Music]